Good morning everyone. My name is Sergey Volodin and today I'd like to tell you about an amazing building -- Habitat 67. First, I will tell you about its story, then I will give you details about it and at the end I will tell you how it's used nowadays.

First, let's talk about its history. This building was originally designed by Moshe Safdie as an Master's thesis at McGill University in Canada. After finishing the university, Safdie decided to establish his own firm and bring his project to life for World's fair Expo 67. It was a very notable part of exhibition then and now it's considered as an architectural landmark in Canada. Because of its success, the building wasn't demolished after the exhibition.

Moving to the next point, let me tell you more details about Habitat 67. It's build in brutalism style which was quite popular from 1950s to 1970s. This style combines functionality, massive complex structures, wide use of reinforced concrete and lack of decorative elements. The Habitat 67 was designed to combine both comfort and privacy of suburban life and benefits of city life. For example, windows of apartment blocks are placed in a way that you never see your neighbour's window. Also each apartment block has it's own private terrace. As you can see, the building consists of identical blocks. These blocks are prefabricated in order to achieve affordability. Habitat 67 has 354 of these blocks forming 146 apartments. Originally it has 158 apartments but then some of them were merged to form larger ones. This building also won an online Logo Architecture poll, so soon you might see a Lego set allowing you to build a Habitat 67 of your own.

Finally, let's talk about how it's used nowadays. Originally, Safdie, the architect intended to build a lot of structures like that and make them cost-effective. But due to economic reasons it was not possible and now we have only one Habitat 67. It's apartments are for sale and prices go up from 300 thousand dollars for a regular apartment to 2 million dollars for a penthouse. Also Safdie has a penthouse of his own. The building is visited by many tourists each year.

So, Habitat 67 is an example of a beautiful dream that haven't been completely fulfilled.
